Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh,
Angelo: Hello.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Angelo: Good, how are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You doing all the chaos going on.
Angelo: It's just another day. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good. I know some people that suffer from anxiety. This is difficult, you know, going through this pandemic and all the chaos and having limited controls. I wanted to check in process.
Angelo: I don't know. I
Angelo: I've always had kind of a lack of control in my life, you know, and kind of used to, you know, and I don't know, I, that's one thing is I'm pretty calm about, you know,
Angelo: I've always been pretty good about keeping a level head like my mom's freaking out. He's one of the people that's fine freaking mountains of toilet paper for what I don't know, you know, she just sees everyone else do it.
Angelo: And I keep telling her, you know, she was under the impression that anybody who caught the coronavirus. It was an automatic death sentence. And I was like, No, I mean most cases it's wild, you know, it's like a mile flu.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's the assurance, you can get from it that you know if you're relatively healthy or young, you know, you'll survive it, you'll be in some discomfort for a period of time, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You'll survive. But I guess the crisis there, like you said, there's, you know, there's the people that's relatively calm, despite because they've done the research and identify that it's not anything that's fatal.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And there are some people that they've given to the height that they're watching the news around the clock and social media.
Angelo: Yeah, and then the president, I don't know, it doesn't really help much things either, you know, all the misinformation and stuff and just want. I don't know.
Angelo: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well he's wanted to check in with that. Um, what would you like to talk about today.
Angelo: Mr.
Angelo: My son last week, or whatever.
Angelo: I asked him to. I don't know if I talked about this, or whatever.
Angelo: I'd asked him to go with me to Los Lunas and he just completely. You know, I pick him up every week from from Job Corps, you know, you can spend a week with them at home.
Angelo: And last weekend you know i i picked him up like normal. And I had to go out to Los Lunas switch. You know, I was raised in Los Angeles. I wanted to add to come drop off some money to my, my cousin those out there and
Angelo: I wanted to spend a little bit of time with my son, you know, and he's got a PlayStation four. And that's all he wants to do dandy not you know like won't spend any time with us won't interact with the family. Won't you know it's it's all about the video.
Angelo: Again 17
Angelo: But when I asked him to come with me. You know, he was like dead. I don't want to go, you know, I'm not going. You know, and I'm I told him. Well, yes, you are coming with me. I want to spend some time with you. I want to hang out with you know like
Angelo: In here, I don't feel like going and you're coming with me. I'm not, you know, and the night before when I picked him up, you know,
Angelo: It's like this big, huge emergency that needs to be picked up right now. And I was at work. So I actually took time from my job.
Angelo: You know, which I'm not supposed to went and picked him up, you know, which I could have potentially been fired for it you know all this stuff. And I explained that, well, you know, like, you know,
Angelo: Like I put myself at risk because I care for you. You know, like, and I want to eat some of you know I want to give you a little bit of comfort.
Angelo: And you know, I don't want to be stuck there at Job Corps and bored you know you want to come home. So I'm going to do that for you. That's what you do when you care for somebody
Angelo: You know, and you expect that, you know, you get the same in return. You know, you want to, you want to eat. Somebody discomfort and in return. You know, you get the same, you know, that's how
Angelo: You know, you show that you care for somebody. And he was just completely like when I brought up the you know that I, you know, could have been fired at work for going to picking him up. He's like, well, it's not my problem. You know, a good grass to be picked up.
Angelo: And I'm just like, what, like how and appreciate it, you know, and then like today, you know, he was getting picked up for you.
Angelo: I mean, and the way it ended or whatever was like, all right, fine, you know, but you don't you don't you say that you don't ever want to be picked up. All right, fine. Don't ever asked me to come pick you up.
Angelo: You know, that was pretty upset. I was pretty angered every day I would pick them up. And of course, it's the emergency that
Angelo: Picked up at exactly this time I show up there and he's not ready, you know,
Angelo: And I have to call them. It takes an hour to go pick him up you know he doesn't care that I've got a meeting coming up. He doesn't care that
Angelo: You know, all he cares about is that he gets to get picked up so he can sit there and play the video game, you know, and I'm pretty upset with him. You know, I'm not happy, you know, and
Angelo: I don't know.
Angelo: I know it's my own ship that I'm carrying around my own animosity and stuff, but he's just, he's leading into, I don't know, like
Angelo: Just that I would have never talked to my parents that way, otherwise I would have gotten punched in the mouth, you know,
Angelo: You know, people didn't do the things that you know
Angelo: That I
Angelo: You know, like
Angelo: It could have been me in that situation, I would have been left a Job Corps, they would have been like, I wouldn't have even asked to
Angelo: Pick up. I understand that my parents are busy and they got other things to do, you know, and it's just, he doesn't appreciate
Angelo: The things that I do for him. Like, it's just like me. Like, I don't give a shit that, you know, like that's not my problem. You know, like I just, I felt like know if you, you know, and I know that's not appropriate, you know, but I mean that's that's honestly how I felt, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You say that your son.
Angelo: He smokes pot.
Angelo: He's been stealing stuff out of my out of my cabin and stuff like that. And the blue WEEKS AGO. YOU GOT CAUGHT over a job for you know the security guard.
Angelo: pulled him aside, you know, and pulled my my baby car to my bait batteries whatever out of his bag and handed it to me, you know,
Angelo: And I didn't give them any consequences for it you know i i gave them the look and tell them we're going to talk about this later, you know, but
Angelo: Nothing ever came of it, nothing he he hasn't had any consequences. He hasn't, you know, and me. I was ashamed. You know, when I stole stuff.
Angelo: You know, I was ashamed. I was thrown out of the house I was not trusted. I was not, you know, and I'm trying to spare him that, you know,
Angelo: But like I caught him a week prior to that. The only stuff you know pot and stuff for me, you know, and it's just like, I can't get through to him.
Angelo: Yeah, and I don't know how to get through to him, you know, and I really felt that, you know, if I could stick to my guns about, you know what, I'm not picking up then.
Angelo: You know, maybe he would have learned, you know, maybe for a weekend or something I don't pick them up you know what
Angelo: You're going to treat me like that, then I'm not gonna go out of my way to freakin, you know, if you don't appreciate it. Why am I going to help you out. You know, and you don't treat people you don't bite the hand.
Angelo: And then, of course, my mom, you know, well then I'll go pick him up and it's a big hassle for her and you know he's even used that in the past, you know, like, you know, all right, well, then I'll just call grandma.
Angelo: You know, like I I had forgotten my one day pick them up so I had to end it was right around five o'clock, traffic, you know, crazy traffic.
Angelo: And so I had to go back home to get my he and he's calling me you know where you did. Where are you, I'm gonna wait until the traffic guys know you need to come get me. Now, I'm not gonna go out and five o'clock, traffic you can wait a little while.
Angelo: To get picked up. Now, you know, and there was nothing going on that he needed to be picked up then in there, you know, the pickup time is between four and nine o'clock, you know, but he just
Angelo: He's just zero consideration for others, you know, and I try and try and get across to him like
Angelo: I'm stumped. I don't know what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm hearing that internal show and also that dialogue, you know, it can that be an appreciative.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, in that, in that regard, when you don't feel appreciated. It's kind of like how do I continue on this relationship. It's a level of a set
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I'm also hearing the conflict of how do you parent. How do you, how do you create those boundaries that are respectful, between the two of you in the past. What were some of the, what were some of the things that you put in place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If anything,
Angelo: Was pretty strict and like it for about the first five, six years and then my mom would get involved and tell me you know all you do is bigger at him. Because I mean, my dad was pretty tough on me, you know, and
Angelo: I wanted to be strict on my son and be, you know, very, I was very close with him, but also very strict, you know, and
Angelo: My mom used to jump over, jump all over me completely just wipe out what I said, you know, because I get financial assistance from my mom. I'm not, you know,
Angelo: I'm not qualified to be a parent or because I use drugs. I had no place to tell him you know and like it was always like
Angelo: I had taken it like in my drug addiction. He had a an old PlayStation three, you know, and we'd bought him a PlayStation four he wasn't using the PlayStation three anymore at all. So I went I
Angelo: got ahold of it and I clicked it I hocked it or whatever, for my drugs or whatever you had a brand new PlayStation four, you know, was he
Angelo: Didn't even notice PlayStation was gone for like three, four months. And when they found out that PlayStation was gone.
Angelo: It turned into this big old thing that that I stole from my son, and that I was such a horrible person that I would, you know, I, I'm a theme that I still from my my own son my own blood and, you know, just this. It was blown away the hell out
Angelo: You know, and originally I was born bought that first PlayStation gave it to him, you know, while it was mine. I played it for, you know, but when he got old enough
Angelo: I gave it to him. You know, I bought him a new PlayStation four, you know, but I'm accused of stealing from my own kids listen that
Angelo: You know, it's just
Angelo: I don't know, it's so frustrating in my life. Yeah.
So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm hearing a lot of underlying right of kind of some of the insecurities about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The struggle with parenting and getting him to respect you. I'm also hearing some regret about your past addiction and how now it's come into play and how your parents.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because a lot of what you did in the past, I've been brought up. And so it's almost that that that dialogue of well do I deserve this is the outcome of my addiction that now I have this child that doesn't respect.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so trying to find a way to incorporate those boundaries and and move away from some of the shame that you experience in your kitchen.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Those that have a question.
Angelo: Yeah, I mean,
Angelo: All the time, you know, but I mean the machine still goes on.
Angelo: You know, and it's just
Angelo: You know, I wanted to be a fight like I i really wanted to, I was excited, you know, and the fact that I wasn't able to, you know, like it really hurt my feelings, you know, and the fact that
Angelo: You know, I've always, you know, like I was like, Okay, finally, it's my chance to wear this different you know the Father had, you know, that instead of
Angelo: And it's like, not everyone keeps ripping that
Angelo: Those hats away from me every time like trying to get a little bit of dignity, respect, you know, it's just like
Angelo: It doesn't happen you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And one of the parts of your life. Do you feel like it's a similar pattern of not being able to have your title, not being able to stand in the position because of install perspective. What other. What are the scenarios come into play.
Angelo: Every, every aspect of my life we're dealing with, you know, interacting with with other people, friends.
Angelo: Just everywhere you know I mean other people, you know, at my job. I've been there longer than most people. You know, and you know they oversee me, you know, and it's like they've been promoted forward. And I don't know, and it's like every job. You know, I put in. I put in the
Angelo: Work my artists, you know, work my best, you know, and it's like the people that stand around and socialize and getting good bosses, or whatever. Those are the people that get moving. You know,
Angelo: Well, I keep my head down state quiet work my butt off come in or, you know, I'm the type of employee were
Angelo: Like at my job. Now I've got people work in the morning and I need to fill up before you start going I go in fill up my paperwork then clock in, you know, to save hours before you know my boss, you know, like I do little things like that, you know,
Angelo: And it's just nothing, you know, or if I get called in on my day off, or whenever they call me I'm there. You know, I mean, when I need the hours, you know, but
Angelo: Also like I'm reliable, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in the in the Maslow's hierarchy of needs. Right. There's, there's, of course, the physiological basically there's a safety. There's the love and belonging that you say that you really haven't been able to get past that threshold and now the self esteem comes in right where people
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have confidence in you when people can be able to say hey you know he's a responsible person there's respect that comes with that esteem and so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When it comes to those levels. There's that gap of not filling the belonging in the social support, and then the esteem in your workplace being respected by your son, and even that dynamic with your mom that she has control. So I'm seeing the ongoing patterns of Angela, not having control.
Angelo: feeling powerless and having no voice.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any, any outweighs any moment any situation where you have
Angelo: Honestly, I mean I wouldn't necessarily call it control. But I mean, what I would consider like the victory over like being able to speak up and stuff.
Angelo: Good example was when we had our conversation the other day, or like me and Dr. Gabrielle
Angelo: We had a conversation and I can do this.
Angelo: Sometime this last week, or whatever.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, how did that long ago I made the assumption that
Angelo: It did end up going going good. But again, I went to fulfill my my prescription this last week, and it was back to the generic, you know, and it's
Angelo: I was just I got pretty upset you know because this has been an ongoing thing or whatever, you know, and I had
Angelo: I had originally wanted to file a Form of grievance or whatever, you know, because
Angelo: Not just that, but you know, been continuously, you know, in the States where they were. And then when I try and talk to Dr have real about a it's been you know i i felt like I've gotten pretty nasty remarks panicking just, you know, I felt like
Angelo: She's been inappropriate with a few things, whatever, you know, and I was trying to file a grievance or whatever because I felt like I've tried to talk to them before the past
Angelo: And they just set up, you know, a one on one, and I have that even made me even more mad. I was like, I've already tried to talk her. There's nothing. There's no talking. I've tried this already, you know, like
Angelo: And I was really like dreading that conversation because it was gonna be very confrontational. Like, I mean, I was gonna have to bring up my grievances to her face and you know I don't like confrontation.
Angelo: As much as possible. But when she actually took it really well and listen to what I had to stay in apologize, you know, and saw things from my from my perspective and saw the how.
Angelo: angry and upset. These things she had ago and said you know that she would not only be more than should be more than just annoyed should be live it upset you know
Angelo: But, and she started to see things in life. Finally, I felt like you know I got through, you know, to talk to her. And I actually had a voice, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so I'm finding that way. It was through the communication. It was, you know, if you would change the language of library being confrontation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's an opportunity to address situations. And so I remember the last time we met. You've been talked about trying to figure out that in your friendships.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Of when they use sarcasm or when they say disrespecting things about you, rather than just laughing to create that boundary so that they can then turn on how to treat you. And so this also comes into place when it comes to your son, you know, and having that communication with him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now this in this stage of development, you know, it's hard for them to they're already trying to develop their independence and, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They're, they're really building their own autonomy at this point. And so basically they are the adults.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And right now, they're also exploring love intimacy and connection. And so what's concerning and i would i don't want in the pattern to be developed his connection with the video game.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. And then, in turn, we would hope that he does it also have that struggle that you're having with developing connection.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know that was a result from your addiction, not necessarily video games, but we're seeing how the trend is transferring to in this millennial stage of it's really just the lack of social connection that will in turn mess up the connection with building, you know, support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Mental yeah
Angelo: Social interaction. Yeah.
Angelo: And see that's that's what bothers me to, you know, like you know when when he's on the microphone. I mean, he talks to other kids and stuff on the video game.
Angelo: But like he talks to the you wouldn't talk to anybody to their face like that, you know, the things he's you know he's custom curtain and assaulting people, stuff like that. And I'm like,
Angelo: You know, if you were to say that to somebody space they would whip your ass. No, that's not the way you talk to people, you know, and I understand guys give each other shit, you know, they
Angelo: You know banter back and forth. You know, like that's not a problem. But like, you know, one of the other kids screws up in the game, you fucking stupid, you would have to be so stupid. You know what, just like bullying. You know, you know, and it's like, I don't like to see that, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you were younger. Did you did you feel like you develop in the sense of identity.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And connection with others in your you
Angelo: Know, I wasn't allowed to really have friends growing up.
Angelo: Just because my dad was so strict
Angelo: I remember that, like, because I grew up on a farm, you know, on nine acres of land and stuff. And we always had work to do project, stuff like that.
Angelo: And, you know, I'd see the guys from school or whatever, right, or ride on the ditch bank with their four wheeler. And I remember one time, one of them at the stop, you know, because he recognized me from school.
Angelo: And like I remember being so terrified that that my dad would see me talking, somebody else and you get mad, you know, used to hate the
Angelo: Used to hate that. Like he he always used to make comments that like you'd like to take shots at, you know, because we, there was always squirrels and stuff like that on the form that
Angelo: We would shoot because we had horses and they dig holes and they break their leg or whatever.
Angelo: And like he'd see you know people riding on their four wheelers with their motorcycles. Remember dirt bikes, whatever, and they kick up dust and he'd always, you know, I want to shoot those Haskell, blah, blah, blah. You know and like the fact that
Angelo: One of those assholes new mean like it was just like oh god you know like
Angelo: Just
Angelo: Constant isolation and like it didn't apply to my sister, my, my sister was a social butterfly, you know, she was able to have friendships spend hours on the phone with nine
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Younger
Older
Angelo: And I don't know. She was always given like the nice stereo and stuff like that, you know, and I never, I never even owned a tape. You know, I used to go in and and
Angelo: You know, like when my sister wasn't there sneak into her room and listen to her tapes and you know sometimes I take them to my, you know, like
Angelo: Because I'd be panic. You know, I found out because I wasn't allowed in my sister's room, you know, she could go in my room. All she wanted, but I didn't have anything she wanted. You know, it was, it was always just
Angelo: I don't know. I felt like things were very different. Yeah, my sister. Growing up, I mean, I always my dad's kid and my sister was my mom's kid, you know, and that's kind of how we were raised.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why, and I notice you observe and try to distinguish between your treatment versus other treatment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you know, I heard you referencing group like I feel like I'm the bad patient, you know, I don't want to be the back nation, and that labeling identify with that labeling and typically in a negative context so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The pattern of even from your childhood, not being able to develop those social connections.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I can see where the anxiety would come in because if you're afraid for your parents to see you interacting with someone else, the consequences of that, you know, the long term. And so when that that embedding that wiring. It's that connections are that you just keep to yourself.
Angelo: Go.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How would you rewire that message in your mind.
Angelo: I don't know.
Angelo: I honestly don't know. I mean, I wish me if I knew that I wouldn't be so isolated, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's where the language.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because there is that neural plasticity, where the brain can be rewired you know people that that have bouts of depression.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But hippocampus which regulates the emotion. It's usually smaller in size in comparison to someone else that doesn't struggle with depression.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But when you enforce and you choose the language, which is on the left side of the brain. It helps to rewire and to allow for the hippocampus to regulate and to increase in size.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this is helpful because it's it's getting the validation. It's having the connection and so continuously communicating with other people don't get it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And even if they don't get it. They just lifted that over time builds up that confidence that we talked about earlier, it builds up that that serotonin enough we go. What I have some confidence.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And in turn, moving up that the hierarchy that we talked about, because with the confidence. It allows for that insecurity and backed out of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Pain connections are bad. Protect yourself at all costs. Look at your dad's hot now to wiring is it sending a message that may be convention box with that. And so what starting and small small increments.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you still go to the aims to me, meaning the smart recovery. Do you do any of that.
Angelo: No. Um, I don't know, I kind of feel like a lot to you know like
Angelo: Because every time that I tried to like talk to my mother about this kind of stuff. And I have a lot of animosity and anger towards her because
Angelo: She allowed that situation to continue, you know. And it wasn't just mental, you know, or emotional, but it was also physical with me.
Angelo: I was the only one that my dad got physical with and, you know, I try and talk to my mom about, you know, my feelings and how
Angelo: You know, I'd like to move forward and, you know, and really all I'm looking for is that acknowledgement, you know,
Angelo: Like, damn. Like, like you're listening to, you're here, you're, you're showing empathy, you're, you're, you understand that.
Angelo: It was hell for me to go through this with my mom. She's just like, oh, everyone goes to shit when they grow up, you know, everybody goes through stuff going you know
Angelo: You know why, why is it that you're so good, why is it that you can't move on. That's that happened so long ago, you know, what did you do to
Angelo: You know, get him to do that, you know, and then a few years ago. Finally, finally I got her to admit that you know the stuff that he was doing was abusive, you know, and it wasn't right.
Angelo: You know, and to finally get that acknowledgement a little bit, you know, but she still. I mean, I think it's just kind of the way she deals with stuff or whatever. But like he will not give me about acknowledgement or
Angelo: You know, it's just like, you know, when I try and talk to the ice. I told you I was sorry you know I said I was sorry. Well, you know, and it's just say
Angelo: There wasn't very genuine, you know, obviously.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And, you know, do you think it's possible for people to heal.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even you know even if it's not what the direct source of where the conflict is from. Do you think it's possible for people to heal and other aspects.
Angelo: Yeah.
Angelo: I mean I think so too.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm wondering if
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Trying to get the resolution to your mother.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That constant low block.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Continues to perpetuate the depression. The not filling the septic the feeding into the love the connection alive. And so what if, what if you want a different route.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What if the outcome was I may never get what I'm looking for from my mother.
Angelo: Yeah.
Angelo: We'll see. The problem is, is like
Angelo: I mean, this is a controlled setting. I mean, we're kind of forced upon you know
Angelo: Me. I don't know how to strike up a conversation with just somebody average. I mean, I don't know, like I i've tried like what you know to make connections, but
Angelo: Every time I fail.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I would challenge that every time because the reason why is that I see the progress over and over again with you. And even though you said this is a controlled space and a lot of people that show up and it's like I'm literally looking at the clock, because I'm like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They don't want to talk. It's like every question is a yes no
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you have it there. But it almost appears as though if we if we compared it back to the toilet paper crisis. Right. It's almost like you keep going to the same store.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know that there's no way they're scientists as were out of stock, but you keep going to that same store to get their needs met. And there's several other stores on that same block.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when you present here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know you're well you're engaging. So if you identify this as a control space that makes it easier. What other avenues in your life, what are the opportunities that you would, you know, interpret as a controlled space that you can do this.
Angelo: Probably the meetings and I mean
Angelo: One of the main things about the meetings that I enjoyed is that you know you can finally, you know, everyone shuts up and listens to you for five minutes, you know,
Angelo: And it's like, you know, I used to support this stuff spew it out, you know, and people would enjoy the stuff that you know because it was relatable.
Angelo: You know and like I could bring up points, you know, and but I could never carry relationships outside of the rooms. You know, I'd hang out, you know, afterwards, have to meet you know but like
Angelo: You know, in the parking lot smoking cigarettes. Like I never have money to go out hang out and have coffee and like I like other people have offered, you know, I'll buy you a cup of coffee or whatever, you know, and I'm like, and I don't feel comfortable with, you know, like if
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's something that they see there's some connection with someone will be willing to buy the coffee.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that minimizing those opportunities where you have built sparks of connection.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even if you don't oblige because you know you're trying to avoid those situations and you're skeptical. That's not saying, anybody that buys you a cup of coffee. Go. ANGELO. That means you build a connection. That's not what I'm saying. But what I'm saying is that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People are giving but they're giving to people that are appreciative there. Give me two people that they feel a connection with or even empathy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so if someone can sense that within you. There's something in you that is able to develop those connections.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The language that you use is almost like you have faulty wiring and that you're only able to connect in this space in group.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I challenge that thinking because what I see in group with other people see what I see in this session is not someone that has faulty connection.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's someone that has just interpreted and because of the childhood because of the up or any any spark can't see it, you can't see it because he's just been so condition. See, the worse outcome and situation.
Yeah.
Angelo: I agree. I mean, I've been conditioned for so long. You know, just so isolated and just like and I know I've got some
Angelo: Some pretty major wires crossed, you know, like associate, I don't know, like, I'll give you a good example like my dad. He had this thing, you know, we're
Angelo: Like he was constant, you know, and I'd be working with him, you know, whatever was in his hand, or whatever, if you weren't moving in or or on the ball or at every get smacked with it or whatever.
Angelo: And there were a few times where he got so angry. He just stopped talking to me for like a week, you know, two weeks.
Angelo: And like it was just like, that was so devastating for me and then I remember like he had knocked the shit out of me after not not talking to me for like two or three weeks.
Angelo: You know, and it was like it was such a relief that he was actually acknowledging me by him. You know, like he's hitting
Angelo: Like he's acknowledging me, you know, this is a good thing. Like he's coming around, you know, and I know that it's not right. Like I associate like the violence with something good, you know, like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I know that. No, it's not. It's not off your thought processes not off because research shows that the worst type of abuse, neglect.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because physical abuse, why you see the bruises people connect with. Hey, at least they care enough to hit the neglect is worse because it messes up the psychological
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what you said was the accurate assumption that wouldn't have been abused have interpreted. You're not often that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is what calm the commonality for children will have been abuse is that the physical abuse was way better than the black because the neglect means you don't care at all if you took the time to hit me. That means you see me.
Angelo: Yeah you acknowledge me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You acknowledge me and that's what I hear, I hear that you want your son to acknowledge you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To acknowledge the work that you're doing, how you're lying, you want your mom to acknowledge how much
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You want the doctor. You want me what the gluten indecency that you're trying. You're not just trying to look the system. You're not just an ad
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's the language that you're trying to separate yourself from not just United
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And with that. So that's your identity. A lot of times you you talk about the addiction.
Angelo: And I mean with within that that addiction, you know, the addict or whatever comes, you know, the
Angelo: Manipulation. The
Angelo: Ways to con or get over on someone.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Angelo: It's, it's hard. You know, like was one of the things that was brought up with Dr Habra out, you know, I got to fill in, like she thinks that I'm just trying to like to manipulate her and trying to, you know,
Angelo: Do something, you know, get something, you know, for know I don't know like and cheat sheet knowledge that she addressed it you know
Angelo: I do feel a lot better about, you know, being able to speak and not only speaking, because I've speak spoke up plenty of times. Whenever get hurt, you know, and never flown through
Angelo: Yeah, usually when I'm upset about something I just shut down. You know, I know that I'm not gonna win, so why even bother fighting
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is what happened as a child.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No point in fighting is no point of resisting
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It can't get it right. So all the abuse and I was an adult. It's not the physical abuse, but it may be the verbal abuse abuse of just feeling neglected and abandoned in relationship.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I want to challenge you, Angela, look for those little sparks that something's funny.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because I know that over time you've been conditioned to no fault of your own children that are physically abused, they don't deserve that. And then, without the right resources and connections to build over time. This is the outcome.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is the outcome, but the difference is now you're recognizing, but how do you go a step further from recognized
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, want to change that expectation, too. So I want you to catch the language, Angela. Whenever you allow yourself to say never.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Feel those ultimate exceptions catch it, because you said that a lot in this conversation and never ends up this way. Never had a
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Bad thing yeah and challenge it because in this moment, we were able to challenge those never statements multiple times.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Never, never works out in the social connections. Well, what's out here, you know it works out in group that even work in that parking lot.
Angelo: And I mean, I've
Angelo: In the last few weeks I've been really trying to to challenge you know because actually my buddy had brought that up to me, you know, my friend Damien.
Angelo: Psychiatrist
Angelo: But he's, he actually had said that about you know that it's, you know, the all or none thinking you know the language or whatever it's
Angelo: It's not always, you know, and I've had to look for and really acknowledge some of the examples you know but my mind always goes back to that resistance. You know when when I do find a good example of
Angelo: Where I've lucked out or something has gone my way in life you know I my mind goes back to. Yeah, that one thing went right but the 10 other things that followed, or were before completely destroyed this opportunity and didn't allow me to move forward, you know, and it
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just means you gotta get better at finding the exception, your brain hasn't had enough time to why that doesn't have enough time to do the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Approach. So every time. Even if every time you come up with an exception, your brain comes up with other reasons. Keep trying.
Angelo: Yeah, it's
Angelo: The best and me. I have a tendency to entertain those those negative thoughts too much. I give like I allowed them to consume me
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Comfort You found comfort in
Angelo: Misery.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With my just be it. This is my reality.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For so long.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so over time you found comfort in the Nevers
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Actually gives you hope and you don't want to have that hope because what hope comes from the vulnerability of being disappointed.
Angelo: Or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: challenge you that wouldn't even in that vulnerability. You can have the hope it doesn't have to be disciplined.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What if you said, Yes, next time someone says, you want to go for coffee.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What is the next time your son does not appreciate you, you put in a strong boundaries.
Angelo: And see, that's what I tried to do and it's like
Angelo: I get forced into my boundaries being crushed you know by my mother, you know, and it's just like every time that I've attempted to
Angelo: You know cuz that day I told it like it got to the point you know because he was resisting so much that I told him, you know what, just get your stuff together.
Angelo: You know, I'm going to take you back to Job Gordon, you know, and you know, he wouldn't gotten a shower and then sat back down on the game or whatever. And I'm like, Come on. Are you ready
Angelo: And he's a really good to take me back. Good. And I'm like, Yeah, you know what, like I'm not playing, you know, and I ended up taking him with me to
Angelo: To Los Lunas let him sweat a little bit, you know, but it's just I don't feel like I'm getting through them, you know, I'm not able to put my foot down. I don't have like every time that I try and exercise my authority or or stand up myself.
Angelo: It's like I get knocked back down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, let's let's find out. Let's find an exception to that. Right. So you put in the boundary. Worst case scenario. Your mom calls and she did some up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's still your boundary. You haven't been inconvenience you still have told your son, the consequences of his actions. And what you will do and you did it. Now, what's your mom's boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That she's negotiating that's not you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know anything from abuse.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have to be careful to not allow other people's actions and what they do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Come in and challenge what you feel your boundaries that you establish that boundary. That's all her
Angelo: And she should should guilt me or whatever, like he's at work now. Like, she just went to work, you know, I've gotta go pick up and drop. And I'm like, and I even got into it with her, you know, and I told her book, Mom, you know, I'm sick of that and we had like a good 30 minute fight.
Angelo: You know, and I'm sick of you know, being the only one without a voice without, you know,
Angelo: Andrew, you're so worried about him getting picked it you know with me. You could care less.
Angelo: And it's like, I'm not asking him to go and work outside with a guy that beats the hell out of you know I'm asking him keep me company sit in the car with me.
Angelo: I gotta go to work now. And I don't want to have to think about this, and I don't I just go pick them up. So I'm like, all right, you know, just swallow it, and
Angelo: You know, swallow that provide some more.
Angelo: 12 those boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Nope. Nope. This is where you get the opportunity to be creative and find out how life I was founded his mom can't pick them up. I can't pick them up, what is there an option was to take public transportation
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know there's there's alternatives.
Angelo: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like they did for that. This is a you abusing their
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Child. This is a you saying, You know what, I just don't feel like, you know, loving you today. So figure it out. This isn't that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're not abusing you're not creating the cycle all over again. This is different.
Angelo: Right.
Angelo: And I mean I really feel like
Angelo: Like it's it's it's me setting boundaries and not losing my temper and and harming him.
Angelo: We setting boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And this is how you communicate, you say to him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have noticed, or I feel we do agency. As a result, I need
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If I can get what I mean. This one, this is what the consequences will be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So now a tam he 17 years old. This isn't a six year old that if you don't pick them up you know this is a 17 year old right. Hey, I'm giving you the fair warning you tell them before you need it. This doesn't get done. Hope you have money because you're gonna have to take the bus.
Angelo: Or he's just gonna have to stay there at Joe. Yes. Think about, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. To me, that's not it, that's not a terrible consequences that that readers, you will abuser. You are detach from that narrative. You are not your dad.
Angelo: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're not abusing him you're giving him an opportunity to be a responsible adult if your mom chooses to enable him. That's her
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Distancing right distancing, not immersing yourself in other people's things because you probably identified that your mom had are all things that she has to work through
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If she could be in a relationship with an abuser and allow for it and still not see the reality of it that's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where need we need to focus on animal at this point.
Angelo: Right. And, see, that's what I want is to be able to move past this stuff and stop with. I mean, I feel like when I'm fighting with my mom I'm holding on to the tale of
Angelo: Rage and I'm never gonna win this you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're going back to the past to the present moment present moment. What I need in this moment is to respect my boundaries that I have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If you want to go and pick them up. You do it. I'm not
Angelo: Right.
Angelo: And just leave it leave it at that.
Angelo: Fight just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this is what I want you to do keep that journal write, and write down. Whenever you use the words never whenever you had those exceptions, have never and always write it down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To do the work into rewire the brain. It takes the work, eat. The first step is the awareness.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And even when you find those exception.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And other things come up. It's okay. Keep trying keep trying.
Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So our next meeting.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Will be
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: THE 30th, that works for you.
Angelo: That's next Monday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, we were doing by week so individual
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is every other week. So the next Monday would be the first year.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Does that work for you.
Angelo: Yeah, as long as it's on a Monday.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's Monday the 30th.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any thoughts. Any questions.
Angelo: No, I think it was a good session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I'll see you next week for group. Okay.
Angelo: Okay. Thank you. Bye.